ha ha ha hi oops our quality oh hi I've
been started from master chef season 2
and I didn't see you there today is st.
Patty's Day and I'm going to teach you
how to make cold Kalin okay that's added
a lot worse than it did in my head I'm
thinking of it I apologize I can't do an
Irish accent where the crap but in fact
today is st. Patrick's Day a lot of
people don't realize that st. Patrick's
Day is actually an Irish American
holidays they don't celebrate it in
Ireland the way that we do here and in
fact I'm sorry to tell you this Boston
but Australia st. Patrick's Day puts our
st. Patrick's Day absolutely to shame
at any rate today is the day when I try
to prepare as many of my favourite
authentic Irish treats as possible and
in my household that means
colcannon cole ken is a traditional
Irish dish that's made with kale and
potatoes and it's traditionally eaten
with some type of pork today I'm going
to teach you the way I do kokkonen which
I substitute purple cabbage for kale and
I add all sorts of bacon and delicious
pork fat into the mix it's going to be
absolutely delicious ok let's get
started first step I've got two and a
half pounds of russet potatoes that have
been sliced about that thick maybe about
an inch or so they are unpeeled and I'd
like to do that because the peel adds
extra flavor and texture and also
increases the nutrition of the recipe
two and a half pounds is about eight
medium sized potatoes now I'm going to
put them into my pressure cooker along
with about five cloves of garlic chopped
up and a cup of water now if you don't
have a pressure cooker don't worry you
can cook your potatoes anyway all you're
doing at this point is making garlic
mashed potatoes so you can cook them
with a microwave you can boil them you
can steam them you can roast them
however you want to do that to me
mashed potatoes I just like to do it in
my pressure cooker because it takes
eight to the minutes which is very fast
and it also retains a lot more of the
nutrition next step bacon now in Ireland
this was probably made more frequently
with the cheaper cuts of the pig basic
pork belly pork jowl hocks
smoked hocks and things like that now
pork belly is probably the best meat to
get for kokkonen
in my opinion I couldn't find any at the
grocery store they were all out so I
just grabbed some of the center cut
bacon it's got a little bit less fat in
it a little bit more lean so it's going
to be a big meteor and I'm going to
render all of that fat out and get the
visib a and crispy now that I've chopped
it up here my cast iron skillet I love
cooking with cast iron if you have
learned this from my other videos throw
away your non-stick pans you cannot cook
good on nonstick pan catamarans was
invented centuries ago it is still the
best form of cooking pan available known
to mankind and it always will be
it's cheap it only requires a little bit
more maintenance and care than regular
non-stick pans so go get yourself some
useful into this rift store and start
improving your cooking today now once I
make it as cooking I'm gonna chop up
ahead red cabbage now you don't have to
wash cabbage just remove the outer cut
more free layers of leaves and discard
them and you're good to go
I like to use red cabbage over the
traditional kale in this recipe first of
all because the color I really love that
beautiful red color and also because it
has a little bit crunchy or meteor
texture and I would like a cold Hannah
that's got lots of the
you're running through it letting this
thicken with nice and crispy go ahead
and pull it out to the slotted spoon
don't reserve that fat eight minutes in
the pressure cooker and my potatoes are
nice and tender s so fast so now I'm
going to mash them with a stick of
butter and about half a cup of heavy
cream now we're not mashed potatoes
you'll see I'm actually using a masher
for several years I put them into my
KitchenAid and I whipped them to them
until they were light and fluffy but
what I discovered after working on
MasterChef is that the texture of mashed
potatoes when you whip them and overwork
them becomes kind of gooey and sticky
and that was accustomed to that being
the texture I should expect but it turns
out that when you just lightly mash them
you get a much fluffier light texture to
them so use just a masher or a fork if
you've got the potato ricer which is
like a giant garlic press that presses
them out that gives you the best texture
of all but don't get in there with your
immersion blender our part or your hand
mixer or put them in your stand mixer
because it is going to absolutely ruin
the beautiful fluffy texture of those
potatoes and now I have a bowl of
beautiful fluffy mashed potatoes this is
the time to season them with salt and
pepper the bacon fat
now how much makes up a lot of space to
fill your skillet but 80% of cabbages
water and air and all of those will air
pockets inside the cabbage are going to
collapse and so this is going to reduce
by half fairly quickly then give
yourself a little bit of salt to the
cabbage while that's cooking and a
splash of vinegar I'm just going to use
apple cider vinegar right now vinegar
goes really well with cabbage you really
do not want to over cook the cabbage
though little bit cooks cabbage tastes
disgusting it tastes like a dead skunk
and you really don't want to be eating
dead skunk put it there I don't think so
you're just going to cook it until the
point that it's wilted and still has
some good crunch to it and that is as
far as you're going to take it now when
your cabbage is slightly cooked but
still crispy you can add it to your
potatoes along with a bunch of chopped
scallions or green onions and all that
delicious bacon you cooked earlier
stir that together and you've got Cola
cannon isn't that beautiful all those
wonderful colors and textures it's like
a potato salad on steroids and that is
how you make my version of the classic
Irish dish that is a good plate of food
you can serve a big ol helping of this
as the main and only course and you can
serve it as a side dish to some grouse
sausages or something yummy like that a
pork roast mmm great crunchy bacon
crunchy cabbage fresh bite from those
green onions that's fantastic for the
full recipe hit my website Ben Starcom
thanks for watching have a great st.
Patrick's Day
you